# Analyzing the Impact of Parental Education Level and Pre-Test Courses on Student Exam Results
An education has an important role in shaping a person to be good then before. Through education, a person can acquire the knowledge, skills, and values necessary to succeed in life. One example of carrying out the educational process is through schools. In its implementation, schools are inevitably involved in the use of examinations. Exams have an important role in measuring understanding and mastery of the material that has been taught from teacher to student. This explanation has motivated me to carry out this project to analyze student exam results. Because exam results play a very important role in improving the quality of education and measuring students achievements in the teaching and learning process.

In this project, I am tasked with analyzing exam results to provide insights that can be used to improve students’ grades, especially those below average. The goal is to ensure better exam results in the future. Here are some of the questions I’ve come up with:
1. Finding the distribution of student exam scores
2. Which groups have the highest average exam scores?
3. Does a test preparation course lead to better exam results for students?
4. Based on the average exam scores, which are not yet optimal?

Summary from overall analysis
1. From the three exams taken by students, only 45% of students passed out to 1000 participants who took the exam. Upon further examination using score classification, only 52 students received an average grade of A, grade B was only held by 146 students, and 256 students received grade C. The reason for the GPA score being far from expectations is that the Reading, Writing, and Math exams have average scores ranging from 66 to 69 points. From the calculations, it can be seen that only the Reading Score achieved a proficiency rate above 50%.
2. When looking at the average scores based on groups, group E has the highest average exam score with an average of 72. This is followed by group D in second place with an average of 69, while group A ranks last with the smallest average score of 62. Furthermore, the analysis of average scores based on parental education background shows that all six graphs (master’s, bachelor’s, associate’s, some college, some high school, and high school) have stable values ranging from 63% to 70%. Parents with a master’s degree have the highest percentage at 70%, while the lowest is high school with a percentage of 63%. From the visualization, it can also be concluded that students with parents who have master’s and bachelor’s degrees, although they have a small percentage composition but they are able to outperform students with other parental education backgrounds.
3. When the overall average score is calculated based on the test preparation course variable, it can be concluded that the test preparation course does not have a significant effect on the average final scores for students scoring ≥70. However, for final scores <70, most students who did not take the preparation course performed worse. Thus, the test preparation course is very useful in minimizing poor final scores for students. Additionally, when looking at the analysis of the test preparation course based on the three exams, the difference in scores between students who took the preparation course and those who did not is relatively small. At least, the test preparation course can minimize the likelihood of obtaining low exam scores.
4. From the analysis, it was found that the Average for Overall Score is most influenced by the Reading and Writing exams. Meanwhile, the Math exam has the lowest correlation value, which is 0.91, with the Average of Overall Score.

From the analysis conducted, I conclude three recommendations that can be implemented to improve exam scores in the future, that is:
1. Optimizing the Test Preparation Course → on the previous analysis showing a pass rate of only 45%, my suggestion is to optimizing the test preparation course program to help improve the average scores of each student, especially those who have below-average scores. Some action that can be made include requiring all students to take the pre-test course or mandating some students to take the pre-test course for those scoring ≤70.
2. Focus on Math exam → based on the average exam scores overall, which conclude that the average Math exam score is low, it is recommended to pay more attention by providing special training or guidance programs for students.
3. Pay attention to Parental Education Background → the parental education background appears to have an influence on exam results. Therefore, it is important to provide additional support and guidance for students with lower parental education backgrounds.
